##################################################################
#
#    INSTALLATION Instructions for the UMLS-Similarity Package
#    $Id: INSTALL.pod,v 1.3 2010/10/11 22:20:46 btmcinnes Exp $ 
##################################################################

=head1 UMLS-Similarity

This package consists of Perl modules along with supporting Perl
programs that implement the semantic similarity and relatedness 
measures described by Leacock & Chodorow (1998), Wu & Palmer (1994), 
Nguyen and Al-Mubaid  (2006), Rada, et. al. 1989, Patwardhan (2003), 
Jiang & Conrath (1997), Resnik (1995), Lin (1998), Patwardhan and 
Pedersen (2006) and a simple path  based measure.

=head1 TESTING PLATFORMS

UMLS-Similarity has been developed and tested on Linux and Solaris, 
primarily using Perl and the C shell (csh).

=head1 REQUIREMENTS

UMLS-Similarity REQUIRES that the following software be installed. 
More details on how to obtain and install appear below. 

--Programming Languages
Perl (version 5.8.5 or better)

--CPAN modules
UMLS::Interface

=head1 PROGGRAMMING LANGUAGES

=head2 Perl (version 5.8.5 or better)

Perl is freely available at:

L<http://www.perl.org>

It is very likely that you will already have Perl installed 
if you are using a Unix/Linux based system. 

=head1 CPAN MODULES

=head2 UMLS-Interface

Please see the UMLS-Interface documentation.

=head1 INSTALLATION 

If you have supervisor access, or have configured MCPAN for local 
install, you can install via: 

 perl -MCPAN -e shell
 > install UMLS-Similarity


If not, you can, "manually" install by downloading the *.tar.gz file,  
unpacking, and executing the following commands. 

                perl Makefile.PL PREFIX=/home/programs LIB=/home/lib
                make
                make test
                make install

Note that the PREFIX and LIB settings are just examples to help you create 
a local install, if you do not have supervisor (su) access. 

You must include /home/lib in your PERL5LIB environment 
variable to access this module when running.

If you have the super-user access, then you can install UMLS-Similarity 
into system directories via :
		perl Makefile.PL
		make
		make install
	 	make clean

The exact location of where UMLS-Similarity will be installed 
depends on your system configuration. A message will be printed 
out after 'make install' telling your exactly where it was installed. 

=head1 CONTACT US

If you have any trouble installing and using UMLS-Interface, please 
contact us via the users mailing list : 

umls-similarity@yahoogroups.com

You can join this group by going to:

L<http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/umls-similarity/>

You may also contact us directly if you prefer :

 Bridget T. McInnes: bthomson at cs.umn.edu
 Ted Pedersen      : tpederse at d.umn.edu
